Pruning and cut through (#67)
tari-project/tari: RFC/src/RFC-0110_BaseNodes.md

When Base Nodes receive blocks from peers while synchronizing, the usual
[block validation](#block-validation-and-propagation) process is followed.

### Pruning and cut-through
[Pruning and cut-through]: #Pruning-and-cut-through "Remove allready spent outputs from the [utxo]"

> In MimbleWimble only the currently UTXO set is really of importance, this allows base layer nodes to remove old used inputs from the [blockchain] and or the [mempool]. Cut-through happens in the [mempool] while pruning happens in the [blockchain] with already confirmed transactions. This will only remove the inputs and outputs, but will not excess of each [transaction]. 

Reviewer: Should be [UTXO](utxo) - thought it was case-insensitive

> Pruning is only for the benifit of the local base node so this is an optional, but recommended requirement. If the base node is running in archival mode it must not prune. 

Reviewer 2: Change "benifit" to "benefit"

> Pruning is only for the benefit of the local base node so this is an optional, but recommended requirement. A Base node will either run in archive mode or prune mode, if the base node is running in archive mode it should not prune. 

Author: I have added this, but I opened up a separate issue about archive nodes, and why they are required as well as their required roles.

> Pruning is only for the benefit of the local base node so this is an optional, but recommended requirement. A Base node will either run in archive mode or prune mode, if the base node is running in archive mode it should not prune. 

Author: #74

[base node]s has the following **optional** reponsibilities:

1. SHOULD search for used outputs in old blocks when a new block is received from another [base node].
2. SHOULD apply pruning to each transaction found.

[base node]s have the following **required** reponsibilities:

> 1. MUST check if a newly received block for [cut-through]. If a block contains already spent outputs, reject that block. 

Author: It is probably a more general requirement, but the same time it is probably better to mention it after we mention what pruning and cut-through is?

I am open to both, or perhaps we move the explaining section higher, and merge all requirements?

> 1. MUST check if a newly received block for [cut-through]. If a block contains already spent outputs, reject that block. 

Reviewer 3: It just feels to me that the rejection of the block is not actually related to pruning or cut-through? It would happen without pruning or cut-through.

> 1. MUST check if a newly received block for [cut-through]. If a block contains already spent outputs, reject that block. 

Author: I think this is perhaps a more compelling argument

When Base Nodes receive blocks from peers while synchronizing, the usual
[block validation](#block-validation-and-propagation) process is followed.

### Pruning and cut-through
[Pruning and cut-through]: #Pruning-and-cut-through "Remove already spent outputs from the [utxo]"

> In MimbleWimble, only the current [UTXO](utxo) set is of importance. This allows base layer nodes to remove old used inputs from the [blockchain] and or the [mempool]. [Cut-through](cut-through) happens in the [mempool] while pruning happens in the [blockchain] with already confirmed transactions. This will remove the inputs and outputs, but will retain the excesses  of each [transaction]. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In MimbleWimble, the state can be completely verified using the current [UTXO](utxo) set, the set of excess signatures (contained in the transaction kernels) and the proof-of-work. The full block and transaction history is not required. This allows base layer nodes to remove old used inputs from the [blockchain] and or the [mempool]. [Cut-through](cut-through) happens in the [mempool] while pruning happens in the [blockchain] with already confirmed transactions. This will remove the inputs and outputs, but will retain the excesses  of each [transaction]. 
```

Pruning is only for the benefit of the local base node so this is an optional, but recommended requirement as it reduces the local blockchain size. A Base node will either run in archive mode or prune mode, if the base node is running in archive mode it should not prune. 

> [base node]s have the following **optional** reponsibilities:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
When running in pruning mode, [base node]s have the following responsibilities:
```

> 1. SHOULD search for used outputs in old blocks when a new block is received from another [base node].

Reviewer 4: This is trivial, this list of "used outputs" will be  precisely the list of inputs in the block _after cut-through is applied_. No searching required. Those UTXOs can be pruned after the block has been validated.

> 2. SHOULD apply pruning to each transaction found.

Reviewer 4: following from the previous 2 comments, this should be a MUST using the algorithm above

> 2. SHOULD apply pruning to each transaction found.

Reviewer 4: I think we need a comment to the tune of

Pruned nodes will not be able to safely handle a sufficiently deep re-org. Only Archival nodes can roll back arbitrarily to handle large re-orgs, and so the network cannot run on pruned nodes alone. For this reason, I'd be hesitant to recommend pruning node to everyone.

[block validation](#block-validation-and-propagation) process is followed.

### Pruning and cut-through
[Pruning and cut-through]: #Pruning-and-cut-through "Remove already spent outputs from the [utxo]"

> In MimbleWimble, only the current [UTXO](utxo) set is of importance. This allows base layer nodes to remove old used inputs from the [blockchain] and or the [mempool]. [Cut-through](cut-through) happens in the [mempool] while pruning happens in the [blockchain] with already confirmed transactions. This will removes the inputs and outputs, but will retain the excesses  of each [transaction]. 

Reviewer 3: removes -> remove

> Pruning is only for the benefit of the local base node so this is an optional, but recommended requirement as it reduces the UTXO set. A Base node will either run in archive mode or prune mode, if the base node is running in archive mode it should not prune. 

Reviewer 3: Actually now that I think about it again pruning doesn't do anything to the UTXO set does it? It actually removes transactions that are no longer part of the UTXO set so it results in a more compact blockchain

Author: agreed
